Introduction to shadcn/ui components (#159)
learning-software-engineering/learning-software-engineering.github.io: Topics/Tech_Stacks/Shadcn.md

# Using shadcn/ui

## Table of Contents

#### [Introduction](#introduction-1)

#### [Installation](#installation-1)

#### [Creating and Customizing Components](#creating-and-customizing-components-1)

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: Consider adding an "Advantages" or "Why use shadcn/ui?" section to introduce its benefits and why it's more useful than other frameworks, such as MUI.

Reviewer 2: +1 !

Author: That's a great idea. I think it makes most sense to add a section like that within the Introduction section so I'll do that.

### What is shadcn/ui? 🤔

[Shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/) gives you the ability to use re-usable components that are built using [Radix UI](https://www.radix-ui.com/) and [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/). You are able to choose from their collection of pre-built components, add the code into your project, and then customize them using cva variants.

### What to Expect 📄

This document will go over how to install and integrate shadcn/ui into your project. Then, it will go through an example of building a `Button` component into your project and talk through the details in each step.

> ## Installation

Reviewer: List different package managers that are compatible for installing shadcn components (ie., npc, pnpm, yarn, etc.) to reiterate that Step 1 in the example is flexible.

You can use shadcn/ui components in any framework that supports React. Typescript is recommended for your projects but Javascript components are also available by making changes to your configurations.

Follow the link below depending on the framework you are using for your project:

- [Next.js](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/next)
- [Vite](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/vite)
- [Remix](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/remix)
- [Gatsby](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/gatsby)
- [Astro](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/astro)
- [Laravel](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/laravel)

If you want to manually install shadcn/ui, follow this [tutorial](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/manual).

> ## Creating and Customizing Components

Author: That's a great point! I'll add "Example" somewhere in the header.

<!-- This [document](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/button) shows the steps you need to take in order to install and use a `Button` component in your project.  -->

> Follow these steps to install, use, and customize a `Button` component in your own project:

Reviewer: Do you think readers will benefit from seeing an additional example, for a more complex component? Possible additions can be Alert Dialog or Card

Author: Although additional examples may be helpful, I think I agree more with Jasper's point. As an introduction page, I think it's better to focus on one clear, simple example that users can follow. To add more resources, I can also link some additional examples so students can learn more about other components on their own!

Reviewer: I see, it makes sense not to give too much information so the reader isn't overwhelmed.

   asChild?: boolean
   }

   const Button = React.forwardRef<HTMLButtonElement, ButtonProps>(
   ({ className, variant, size, asChild = false, ...props }, ref) => {
       const Comp = asChild ? Slot : "button"
       return (
       <Comp
           className={cn(buttonVariants({ variant, size, className }))}
           ref={ref}
           {...props}
       />
       )
   }
   )
   Button.displayName = "Button"

   export { Button, buttonVariants }

   ```

2. **Usage:** Import the `Button` component in your project wherever you need to use it.

   ```Typescript
   import { Button } from "@/components/ui/button"
   ```

3. **Customization:** Add the imported component in your project and customize it however you like. See [examples](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/button#examples) of how to use the different variants defined in [button.tsx](#buttontsx) to style your component in different ways.

   #### Customizing Using Variants

   The variants given to you in the file is named according to the colours that are defined in your main css file during installation.

   You can make changes to the default variants with Tailwind to fit your project's theme.

>    You can also rename the variants and add your own variants to create more customization in your component.

Author: Sounds good!

>    You can also rename the variants and add your own variants to create more customization in your component.

Reviewer: I noticed that the example code uses `cva()` to define variants. It may be helpful to introduce CVA more prominently by encouraging readers to learn more about it in: https://cva.style/docs

>    You can also rename the variants and add your own variants to create more customization in your component.

Author: Good idea, thanks for the link!

>    You can also rename the variants and add your own variants to create more customization in your component.

Author: @neecofabian I've included the CVA documentation in a new section called Resources at the bottom of this page!

   To apply a certain variant to your component, all you need to do is define the variant property to your used component:

   ```Typescript
   <Button variant="outline">Click here</Button>
   ```

   #### Customizing the Size

   Sizing of the component can be customized to easily create responsive designs. Similar to variants, you can customize different sizes in the component file and use them in your project:

   ```Typescript
   <Button variant="outline" size="lg">Click here</Button>
   ```

   Similar to variants, you can rename the default sizes or add your own.

> See the shadcn/ui [documentation](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/accordion) to see all the components that are available to re-use in your project.

Reviewer 2: @neecofabian @sarahhjchung This is an open-ended thought, but what are your thoughts on adding other visual references to this article? Since ShadCN is a visual component library I'm thinking that it'll be relevant. Maybe images of the different buttons as you're progressing through the example? Feel free to discuss!

Reviewer: That's a great idea, I think it can bring some visual differences to this new page and show off the library's components. In addition to showing the button's progress throughout the example, @sarahhjchung can include the different button variants to show how CVA variant properties affect shadcn objects

Author: After addressing all the other comments you and Neeco have made, I'll see if there's any good spots to add some visual references in. I think it might be helpful to add screenshots of the different button variants like you're suggesting.

Author: After address the comments, I thought it would be best to share a link to view the button variant examples in the shadcn documentation. Personally, it looks cleaner and focuses the attention on the code snippets that I included.

Reviewer 2: @sarahhjchung that makes sense! Just took a look and I really like the addition of this resources link. As I mentioned in a previous comment, readers who are interested in exploring ShadCN will naturally follow this path to investigating the component library for themselves.

## Introduction

### What is shadcn/ui?

[Shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/) is a component library that gives you the ability to use re-usable components that are built using [Radix UI](https://www.radix-ui.com/) and [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/). You are able to choose from their collection of pre-built components, add the code into your project, and then customize them using cva variants.

### Why use shadcn/ui?

Shadcn/ui helps you separate the design of your components from the implementation. This way, using shadcn/ui is a very modular and easy process. Additionally, there is no requirement to install any package; you only need to install the specific components you'd like to use.

### What to Expect

This document will go over how to install and integrate shadcn/ui into your project. Then, it will go through an example of building a `Button` component into your project and talk through the details in customizing it.

## Installation

You can use shadcn/ui components in any framework that supports React. Typescript is recommended for your projects but Javascript components are also available by making changes to your configurations.

> Follow the link below depending on the framework you are using for your project:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow any of the links below depending on the framework you are using for your project:
```

- [Next.js](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/next)
- [Vite](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/vite)
- [Remix](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/remix)
- [Gatsby](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/gatsby)
- [Astro](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/astro)
- [Laravel](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/laravel)

If you want to manually install shadcn/ui, follow this [tutorial](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/manual).

## Example: Creating and Customizing a Button Component

<!-- This [document](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/button) shows the steps you need to take in order to install and use a `Button` component in your project.  -->

> Follow these steps to install, use, and customize a `Button` component in your own project:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, we will walk through the steps to install, use, and customize a `Button` component in your own project:
```

           destructive:
           "bg-destructive text-destructive-foreground hover:bg-destructive/90",
           outline:
           "border border-input bg-background hover:bg-accent hover:text-accent-foreground",
           secondary:
           "bg-secondary text-secondary-foreground hover:bg-secondary/80",
           ghost: "hover:bg-accent hover:text-accent-foreground",
           link: "text-primary underline-offset-4 hover:underline",
           // Your new variant!
           dark: "bg-foreground text-background font-bold hover:bg-background hover:text-foreground hover:border"
       },
   ```

   ```Typescript
   // Use your new variant in your Button component
   export function ButtonDark() {
        return <Button variant="dark">Dark</Button>
   }
   ```

   #### Customizing the Size

   Sizing of the component can be customized to easily create responsive designs. Similar to variants, you can customize different sizes (by editing generated sizes or adding new sizes) in [button.tsx](#buttontsx) and use them in your project:

   ```Typescript
   export function ButtonLarge() {
        return <Button size="lg">Large Button</Button>
   }
   ```

> ## Resources

Reviewer 2: I really like this section, good job! 🚀
